# Databases

The artifact for the Databases category is the creation of basic MySQL statements for a SQL database. The artifact was used in the report for DAD 220: Introduction to SQL and was created in November of 2019. This artifact uses a messaging database, a person table, an image table, and a message-image table. The database and tables were utilized for demonstrating create, read, update, and delete for the MySQL language. Having a minimal knowledge of scripting at the time, I decided to enhance this artifact for illustrating my improved scripting and database abilities.

The original artifact functionality consists of basic SQL commands for CRUD operations. The features of the original code include the creation of the mesaging database, altering the person table, initializing the image table, and combining the message database with the image table in the message-image table. Additional features include inserting a value into the person table, deleting a value from the person table, and creating two tables named hello and horror for demonstrating functionality within the MySQL terminal used for execution. Though the code segments may not have errors, the functionality of the original code requires significant advancements to be sufficient. 


Find the original artifact here. 

The inclusion of the artifact in my ePortfolio is justified through the relevance of creating databases utilizing relational-database management systems. Due to the nature of relational-database management systems and how databases can contain complexities, I made the decision to incorporate this artifact into the ePortfolio. Additional reasons on why I chose this artifact include factors where I can illustrate my creativity when creating a complex database. The specific components of the artifact which showcase my skills and abilities in the software development of databases include the proper initialization of the messaging database, constructing the tables to coincide with the messaging database, and to successfully implement CRUD operations for the person table. How the artifact was improved was through omitting the messaging database, cleaning the original tables, and creating a new database with tables for Arkham Horror: The Board Game 3rd Edition. The messaging database was omitted to show how I can create a more complex database that is more creative. Cleaning the original tables increases the performance of the table’s execution and style. Creating a new database with tables for Arkham Horror: The Board Game 3rd Edition will contain advanced MySQL statements and logic, which is the purpose of the enhancement to the artifact. Therefore, the artifact is included to demonstrate proficiency in the Databases category. 

The enhanced artifact functionality consists of the advanced MySQL statements and recycled the original artifact functionality. I was able to create the new Arkham Horror database, the tables for the new database, use complex condition statements, and prevent SQL injections. The updates to my outcome-coverage plans include refining the tables from the old database and recycling those tables into the Arkham Horror database. The updates mitigate design flaws and incorporate the contents of the artifact with the enhancements. With the course objectives and updates, I created a new database that is more suited for the industry. 

Find the enhanced artifact here. 
